.TH CRANKCTL 1 "APRIL 2014" Crank "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
crankctl \- crank control client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCcrankctl\fR \fB\fC<command>\fR [opts]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCcrankctl\fR allows to send commands to \fB\fCcrank\fR trough it's control port.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Global options:
.TP
\fB\fC\-name\fR \fIprocess\-name\fP
If passed, it sets the \fB\fC\-ctl\fR arguments to a \fB\fC$prefix/$name.ctl\fR default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-prefix\fR \fIpath\fP
Sets the crank runtime directory. Defaults to \fB\fC/var/crank\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-ctl\fR \fInet\-uri\fP
Path or address of the control port. This should point to an existing unix
socket controlled by crank.
.SH COMMANDS
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCcrankctl run [opts] \-\- [command ...args]\fR
.RE
.PP
Used to start a new process. Once ready, crank terminates the old process. If
the startup fails, crank leaves the old process running and untouched.
.TP
\fB\fC\-cwd PATH\fR
Directory name to run the command under.
.TP
\fB\fC\-start SEC\fR
Sets the start timeout of the process in seconds.
.TP
\fB\fC\-stop SEC\fR
Sets the stop timeout of the process in seconds.
.TP
\fB\fC\-wait\fR
Waits for either the process to be ready or to fail. If the new process has
failed, crankctl exits with an exit status of 1.
.TP
\fB\fC\-pid PID\fR
If passed crank will only spawn a new process if the current process matches
the pid. It's useful to avoid race conditions if multiple tools interact
with crank at the same time.
.TP
\fB\fCcommand ...args\fR
Gives the command and args to run. If unspecified, the previous successful
command is used.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCcrankctl info [opts]\fR
.RE
.PP
Returns infos on the crankctl runtime.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCcrankctl ps [opts]\fR
.RE
.PP
Displays the status of running processes. If no argument is passed, all
processes are listed.
.TP
\fB\fC\-starting\fR
Selects all starting processes (should only be one)
.TP
\fB\fC\-ready\fR
Selects all ready processes (should only be one)
.TP
\fB\fC\-stoppping\fR
Selects all stoppping processes.
.TP
\fB\fC\-pid PID\fR
Selects a specific PID from the exisiting set. This flag is a AND filter
unlike the other ones.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCcrankctl kill [opts]\fR
.RE
.PP
Sends a signal to the target processes. If no argument is passes, no processes
are signaled.
.TP
\fB\fC\-signal SIGNAME\fR
Provides the type of signal to send. If no signal is passed, SIGTERM is the
default. Signals can be prefixed with "SIG" or not. Eg: SIGINT or INT
.TP
\fB\fC\-starting\fR
Selects all starting processes (should only be one)
.TP
\fB\fC\-ready\fR
Selects all ready processes (should only be one)
.TP
\fB\fC\-stoppping\fR
Selects all stoppping processes.
.TP
\fB\fC\-pid PID\fR
Selects a specific PID from the exisiting set. This flag is a AND filter
unlike the other ones.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCCRANK_NAME\fR, \fB\fCCRANK_CTL\fR
If non\-null it defines the default argument of their corresponding flag.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR crank (1), 
.BR crankmulti (1)